---
title: "Knowledge and Data Integration"
collection: Teaching assistant
type: "Master's course"
permalink: /teaching/2021-KDI
venue: "University of Trento"
date: 2021-09-01
location: "Trento, Italy"
---


### Course Objectives and Outcomes
The Knowledge and Data Integration course aims to providing motivations, definitions, theorems and techniques for a concrete and effective understanding of what (in the context of computer science) is meant for knowledge and data integration. Providing also, techniques for analyzing and modelling knowledge and data as well as techniques for data and knowledge integration. Stimulating the students to continue their career with higher interest into data and knowledge representation in their own field of expertise, and to produce computer-processable solutions of relevant problems.


General Description
======
This course will cover the following topics:
* the main issues which can be addressed when data and knowledge resources have to be integrated.
* a general methodology (iTelos) for knowledge and data analysis, modeling and integration.
* an analysis of the state of the art tools and methodologies for data analysis, modeling and integration.
* an introduction to ontologies, Extended ER models and linguistic resources.

This is a hands-on, lab and experiment based course. Students will be given a data analysis/modelling/integration problem that they will have to solve, possibly, while taking the class. During the experiment, students will have to apply to the problem the notions introduced in class. The students splitted in teams, where each team will solve an integration problem adopting the methodology taught during the lectures.


Please find more details from [KDI course link](https://unitn-kdi-2021.github.io/unitn-kdi-2021-website/).